# unemployment-rate-US--Covid-19

The Coronavirus pandemic has led to countries' governments issuing lots of restrictions to limit the spread of the virus, and these policies have strong effects on the global economy. Therefore, citizens’ lives have also been greatly affected by the economic crisis. At the beginning of the COVID-19 period (April 2019), there were more than 20 million jobs swept away which caused an increase in the unemployment rate. (An Unemployment Crisis after the Onset of COVID-19, 2020) Unemployment is defined as a person who loses a job, but actively searches for jobs for four weeks, and is available for work. The U.S. unemployment rate during the Coronativrus period reached its peak throughout the American historical unemployment rate. According to the U.S. Employment and Training Administration(ETA), during the COVID-19 period unemployment was even higher than during the Great Recession of the 1930s. 
The Economist Elvis Picardo claims that the national unemployment rate is the key indicator to measure a country’s labor force market. Governors and economists would pay more attention to the national economic rate, especially during huge economic recession periods and special economic events. This is because the unemployment rate not only has an impact on personal life but also has over-widening effects on the whole economy. Therefore, this is why our group focuses on the topic of the U.S. unemployment rate problem because the U.S. labor market is now under tremendous stress as a result of the COVID-19 outbreak and subsequent mitigation measures. Besides, researching the U.S. unemployment rate enables us to have a deeper understanding of other countries' unemployment models. It is well known that the U.S. is the world's largest economy, and studying the unemployment rate in the U.S. in the Covid19 gives us a good model to study other economies. The conclusions and recommendations of the study will also be useful for other countries.
